.\"   Part of publib.
.\"  
.\"   Copyright (c) 1994-2006 Lars Wirzenius.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"   are met:
.\"  
.\"   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  
.\"   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"      with the distribution.
.\"  
.\"   THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\"   OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\"   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"   ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\"   DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"   DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
.\"   GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\"   INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\"   WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\"   NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\"   SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"  
.\" part of publib
.\" "@(#)publib-fname:$Id: fnpathfind.3,v 1.2 1994/02/03 17:34:01 liw Exp $"
.\"
.TH FNPATHFIND 3 "C Programmer's Manual" Publib "C Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
fnpathfind \- find a file in a list of directories
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <publib.h>
.sp 1
int \fBfnpathfind\fR(const char *\fIpath\fR, const char *\fItgt\fR,
                     char *\fIres\fR, size_t \fImax\fR);
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIpathfind\fR looks for a file in a list of directories.  The
argument `path' is a colon separated list of directories, typically
the contents of an environment variable like PATH, MANPATH, or CDPATH.
The function will go through the directories in the path and look in
each directory for a file given in argument `target' until it finds
it.  Only an exact match is reported, no wild cards or globbing.
.PP
The names that are matched are formed by taking an element from the
path and prepending it to target.  An empty element means the current
directory, as does the name ".".
.PP
The function returns -1 for failure (not found or error), or the total
size for the full name (the full name may have been truncated when
stored into result).
.SH BUGS
The function uses dynamic memory allocation and may
therefore fail due to insufficient memory.
.PP
It is not trivial to know in which directory the search ended.  This
makes is difficult to continue the search.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
publib(3), fname(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Lars Wirzenius (lars.wirzenius@helsinki.fi)
