.\"   Part of publib.
.\"  
.\"   Copyright (c) 1994-2006 Lars Wirzenius.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"   are met:
.\"  
.\"   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  
.\"   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"      with the distribution.
.\"  
.\"   THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\"   OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\"   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"   ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\"   DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"   DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
.\"   GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\"   INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\"   WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\"   NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\"   SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"  
.\" part of publib
.\" "@(#)publib-fname:$Id: fnqualify.3,v 1.2 1994/02/03 17:34:02 liw Exp $"
.\"
.TH FNQUALIFY 3 "C Programmer's Manual" Publib "C Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
fnqualify \- qualify a filename
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <publib.h>
.sp 1
size_t \fBfnqualify\fR(char *\fIresult\fR, const char *\fIpath\fR, size_t \fImax\fR);
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIfname_qualify\fR qualifies a filename.  This means that if the
input name is not an absolute name (i.e. starts from the root
directory, e.g. is \fBfoo\fR, not \fB/tmp/foo\fR), the current
directory will be prepended to it.  Also, tilde conversion is done: if
the filename begins with a tilde (~), the tilde is replaced with the
home directory of the user, and if it begins with a tilde and a
username, both are replaced with the home directory of the given user.
.PP
Simplifications like replacing /./ with /, and /foo/../bar with /bar
are not done because of problems with symbolic links.
.SH RETURNS
The function returns -1 if there was some error, or the total size of
the full name otherwise.  The return value may be greater than the
maximum size given by the last argument; only as much as allowed by
that is actually written, though.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
publib(3), fname(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Lars Wirzenius (lars.wirzenius@helsinki.fi)
