.\"   Part of publib.
.\"  
.\"   Copyright (c) 1994-2006 Lars Wirzenius.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"   are met:
.\"  
.\"   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  
.\"   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"      with the distribution.
.\"  
.\"   THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\"   OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\"   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"   ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\"   DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"   DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
.\"   GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\"   INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\"   WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\"   NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\"   SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"  
.\" part of publib
.\" "@(#)publib-strutil:$Id: memins.3,v 1.2 1994/06/20 20:29:53 liw Exp $"
.\"
.TH MEMINS 3 "C Programmer's Manual" Publib "C Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
memins \- insert bytes at beginning of memory block
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <publib.h>
void *\fBmemins\fR(void *\fItgt\fR, size_t \fItgtsize\fR, const void *\fIsrc\fR, size_t \fIsrcsize\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImemins\fR inserts \fIsrcsize\fR bytes from \fIsrc\fR at the beginning
of \fItgt\fR, but moves the first \fItgtsize\fR out of the way.  The source
and target memory blocks must not overlap.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fImemins\fR returns its first argument.
.SH EXAMPLE
To insert a new element at the \fIi\fRth position of an array,
one might do the following.
.sp 1
.nf
.in +5
int new, array[10];

memins(array+i, (10-i-1)*sizeof(array[0]), &new, sizeof(new));
.in -5
.sp 1
.fi
Please note that the above code carefully avoids the trap of moving the
last element of the array past the end of the array.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
publib(3), strins(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Lars Wirzenius (lars.wirzenius@helsinki.fi)
