.\"   Part of publib.
.\"  
.\"   Copyright (c) 2012 Antti-Juhani Kaijanaho.
.\"   Copyright (c) 1994-2006 Lars Wirzenius.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"   are met:
.\"  
.\"   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  
.\"   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"      with the distribution.
.\"  
.\"   THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\"   OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\"   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"   ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\"   DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"   DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
.\"   GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\"   INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\"   WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\"   NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\"   SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"  
.\"
.TH PUBLIB 3
.SH NAME
publib \- introduction to publib
.SH SYNOPSIS
#include <publib.h>
.br
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fIpublib\fR is a library of C functions that are useful in many
of programs.
It is an extension to the
Standard C library (as defined by the ISO/ANSI C standard 9899-1990).  To
use the functions in publib, #include <publib.h>
and link with
the libpub.a library (adding -lpub at the end of the link command
should work, if the library has been installed properly).
.PP
The library provides functions for
.sp 1
.in +5
.nf
string and memory area manipulation
memory allocation
.\" generic data structures
I/O
.\" configuration files
comparison functions for qsort, bsearch, and others
expression evaluation
.\" dates and times
.in -5
.sp 1
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Publib was originally written by
Lars Wirzenius.
It is now maintained by
Antti-Juhani Kaijanaho (antti-juhani@kaijanaho.fi).
