.\"   Part of publib.
.\"  
.\"   Copyright (c) 1994-2006 Lars Wirzenius.  All rights reserved.
.\"  
.\"   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\"   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\"   are met:
.\"  
.\"   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  
.\"   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
.\"      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
.\"      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
.\"      with the distribution.
.\"  
.\"   THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
.\"   OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
.\"   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\"   ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
.\"   DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\"   DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
.\"   GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\"   INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
.\"   WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
.\"   NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
.\"   SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"  
.\" part of publib
.\" "@(#)publib-strutil:$Id: stranaxfrm.3,v 1.1 1994/06/20 20:30:05 liw Exp $"
.\"
.TH STRANAXFRM 3 "C Programmer's Manual" Publib "C Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
stranaxfrm \- make a string into canonical form for anagram comparison
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <publib.h>
char *\fBstranaxfrm\fI(char *\fIstr\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIstranaxfrm\fR transforms a string into a canonical form for anagram comparisons.
To check whether two strings are anagrams of each other (i.e., they contain
the same characters, but in different order), compare their canonical forms.
The canonical form merely has all the characters in the string sorted into
ascending order.
.PP
To write a program to find anagrams, first convert a word list
into canonical order, then look up words in that version of the word list
by transforming them also to canonical order.  
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fIstranaxfrm\fR returns its argument.
.SH BUGS
This function is of a whimsical nature.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
publib(3), strcmp(3), strcasecmp(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Lars Wirzenius (lars.wirzenius@helsinki.fi)
