/* Part of publib.
  
   Copyright (c) 1994-2006 Lars Wirzenius.  All rights reserved.
  
   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
   modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
   are met:
  
   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
      notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  
   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
      disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
      with the distribution.
  
   THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
   OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
   ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
   DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
   DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
   GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
   INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
   WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
   NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
   SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
*/
.\" part of publib
.\" "@(#)publib-strutil:$Id: strgsub.3,v 1.1.1.1 1994/02/03 17:25:30 liw Exp $"
.\"
.TH STRGSUB 3 "C Programmer's Manual" Publib "C Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
strgsub \- substitute all occurences of pattern with another string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <publib.h>
int \fBstrgsub\fR(char *\fIstr\fR, const char *\fIpat\fR, const char *\fIsub\fR, size_t \fImax\fR);
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIstrgsub\fR finds all occurences of the pattern \fIpat\fR in the
string \fIstr\fR (using a method similar to \fIstrstr\fR(3) to find
the occurrences, i.e., no regular expressions), and replaces each with
\fIsub\fR. If \fIpat\fR does not occur in \fIstr\fR, no substitution is made.
The size (including the terminating '\\0') of the string after
the substitutions may be at most \fImax\fR chars.  If it would be larger,
no substitutions are made.
.PP
Of course, if \fIsub\fR is an empty string, the occurences of the pattern 
are deleted from the string.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
\fIstrgsub\fR returns the number of substitutions made, or -1 if the
result would not have fit into \fImax\fR chars.
.SH EXAMPLE
To substitute every "foo" with "bar" in a line, one might do the following.
.sp 1
.nf
.in +5
strgsub(line, "foo", "bar", strlen(line)+1);
.in -5
.SH "SEE ALSO"
publib(3), strstr(3), strsub(3)
.SH AUTHOR
Lars Wirzenius (lars.wirzenius@helsinki.fi)
